I'm back with dr. Sanjay Gupta we're
tackling your biggest coronavirus
question separating fact from fiction
next
kronole virus testing so come show me
about the the testing that's gonna be
required as the virus sweeps across the
United States and there currently the
questions about testing have become so
loud now and the answers are often sort
of vague but it shouldn't be so explain
to me that should do the test on me if I
went to you and you were you know I was
saying I have a cough not productive and
a fever and I feel tired what would you
do first thing I was trying to figure
out is what exactly has been going on
with you how severe are these symptoms
I'd probably do an analysis check your
temperature things like that the basic
things I'd ask about your travel history
I'd also want to still think about
common things being common so the the
idea that this is still more likely to
be the flu or the common cold with you
is still true despite everything that
we've been talking about recently so the
test itself I don't know if you really
want me to do this yeah do it I want
people to see it my greatest moments of
my life here I get the best dr. oz on TV
all right so he's straightforward got
down there pretty deep ever good good
patient I'm gonna keep this clean this
has not been done the most sterile way
I'd be wearing a mask just not to get my
own germs on it then you put this back
in here and ultimately three things are
gonna happen there's gonna be something
that's added to this to basically strip
genetic material of the virus if you
have the virus away from the swab then
that's gonna be put into two different
vials over here one is a control to see
does it actually react and two is the
the real pest and to see if you in fact
the virus it shows up positive or not
and then many patients are all put
together on this because we can be no
your this one this one this one this one
and everyone else is over here is we can
read all these at once and we find out
positive negative hopefully yep and it's
a it's a pretty good test I mean the the
faults negative rate false negative
would be the worst thing because you
told somebody they don't have it yeah
they actually have it checked they go
start spreading it so you really want to
minimize false negatives false positives
are bad as well but false negatives the
worst false negative for this test is
around three percent so you that's a
it's pretty good yeah pretty good you've
spoken the world experts in China Korea
Italy maybe even Iran what are they
saying about the testing they're doing
in their patients what's working what
are the strategies we should be adopting
well you know they had a test and they
headed early you know the World Health
Organization created a test that was
distributed around the world and they
were able to to do a good job using that
test we wanted to create our own test
here in the United States and it got
delayed so I think one of the big things
that's been working is just early
testing look at South Korea everyone
holds them up as an example and we
should look around the world here they
were doing thousands of tests a day at
this juncture in time I don't think
we've done more than six or seven
thousand tests total they've done a
hundred and sixty thousand tests and let
me tell you what comes out of that is
some good news first of all you can
figure out who's exposed you can isolate
them reduce transmission but what they
find now the world fatality rate from
coronavirus is around three to four
percent in South Korea it's point six
percent so testing makes a difference in
this makes a huge difference that's
still higher than flu but dramatically
lower and that's where we need to get
here in this country as well so if you
do test positive here or any other
country what happens how long will take
to get better
well if you really aren't having much in
the way of symptoms they say two to
three weeks you you want to make sure
that you still don't test pause it at
the end of that point but right around
that juncture you should be pretty
recovered if you have significant
symptoms if you're seriously ill it can
be as long as six weeks and a lot of
that time could be in the hospital maybe
not an ICU but in the hospital so it's
not just you know a few days of
hospitalization for these millions of
patients it could be several weeks which
is something for the hospital system as
prepare for but it would not be unusual
eyes for someone to still say wow a
month later I still feel kind of cruddy
yeah that wouldn't be unusual so to
avoid this country's taking some pretty
draconian boosts China of course was a
massive largest-ever isolation yeah you
know in order to quarantine in order to
make sure people were kept safe in the
rest of the planet and in their own
country Italy locking the whole country
down how effective would these tactics
be in this country would we lock down
for example the New York area where we
now have the most coronavirus you know
it was really effective in China but
unless everyone abides by it it becomes
a lot less effective what is the single
thing you wish we were doing at a
national level to be more prepared well
I mean everyone beats up on the whole
testing and I think I'd have to put that
at the top of the list because as dr.
Redfield who's head of the CDC said
unless you have eyes on this thing he
was talking about like a hunt almost
unless you have eyes on this thing you
don't know what you're dealing with and
I think that's that's top of mind for me
but also right now as patients come into
the hospitals there's gonna be doctors
and nurses who are saying we actually
don't have enough breathing machines
here so here's what we're gonna have to
do here are the tough choices we're
gonna have to make I thought that right
behind number one imagine that moral
dilemma which which which grandmother
gets the ventilator it's not these are
real decisions happening in Italy right
now older population and you say why is
the mortality rate so high it's the
pressure on the medical system
preventable deaths they could take care
of these patients if they had enough
resources but it was hard to prepare we
should not have that excuse in this
country bless you for all the past you
and the insight you bring to this thank
thank you very much Doug appreciate it
he catches podcasters called coronavirus
fact versus fiction if you want what's
really going on listen this man disease
is not the only thing that can spread
misinformation is just as contagious so
stay smart stay informed we have an
opportunity guys to come together as a
society right now to face Cobra 19 with
passion compassion and patience as well
as an unwavering commitment to the truth
so don't give in to the fear of the
panic and the self-interest do it for
each other be right back be sure to
subscribe to my channel so you don't
miss anything and remember to check back
often to see what's new